### Pinecones are magical

"Pinecones are beautiful, geometric wonders that are only devalued by their
abundance. Fractal sculptures. Evergreen snowflakes. Blossoms in wood.
(Familiarity can rust magic. A little mental effort returns the shine.)" 

_ The CryptoNaturalist @CryptoNature 2018-08-24

https://twitter.com/CryptoNature/status/1032808690292797440

“We have also sound-houses, where we practise and demonstrate all sounds, and
their generation. We have harmonies which you have not, of quarter-sounds, and
lesser slides of sounds. Divers instruments of music likewise to you unknown,
some sweeter than any you have, together with bells and rings that are dainty
and sweet. We represent small sounds as great and deep; likewise great sounds
extenuate and sharp; we make divers tremblings and warblings of sounds, which in
their original are entire. We represent and imitate all articulate sounds and
letters, and the voices and notes of beasts and birds. We have certain helps
which set to the ear do further the hearing greatly. We have also divers strange
and artificial echoes, reflecting the voice many times, and as it were tossing
it: and some that give back the voice louder than it came, some shriller, and
some deeper; yea, some rendering the voice differing in the letters or
articulate sound from that they receive. We have also means to convey sounds in
trunks and pipes, in strange lines and distances.”

_ “The New Atlantis” – Francis Bacon, 1623

That's some story. Actually it's a story wrapped in another story.
Daphne Oram put that quote on the wall at The BBC Radiophonic Workshop and
_that's_ the story I've been told.
 
Everything was recorded onto analog tape in rarified recording palaces like New
York's Electric Lady and L.A.'s Capitol Studios. Human spontaneity was coveted;
computers, with their tendency toward mindless repetition, were not.

“Technology has made music accessible in a philosophically interesting way,
which is great,” says Bangalter, talking about the proliferation of home
recording and the laptop studio. “But on the other hand, when everybody has the
ability to make magic, it's like there's no more magic—if the audience can just
do it themselves, why are they going to bother?”  

https://pitchfork.com/features/cover-story/reader/daft-punk/

Ryan Dombal's Daft Punk interview for Pitchfork that came out in May 2013 is
riddled with descriptions of the interviewees affluance. We are told a story of
success through appearances. I imagine the article had the opposite of the
intentended effect on me. I love the idea of democratising the means of
production.

Take your fingers right up to your ears. As close as you can get them without
touching your ears. Now rub your fingers together ever so gently. You can hear
that can't you. Now imagine trying to hear such a faint sound across from a
concert hall or even just a a stage. You would not be able to. Now image an
orchestra. Something close to a hundred people. They wouldn't be able to fit
there with all of their instruments in that close proximity where you heard that
faint sound of your fingers rubbung together just now. Right there is where I
put the microphone. Each time, as close as I can get it. For each instrument and
somtimes even changing the placement to optimize fully for a particular
articulation.
