Preliminary plan for my Master thesis:  

**Mapping the valleys of the uncanny**  

_An investigation into process and method within the field of algorithmic
composition._

_The role of instrumentation and timbre as they unwittingly
conspire to designate access, power, work and ultimately class._  

Three hours from opening to closing including intermissions. New Computer Music
compositions presented within the framework of an evening at Fylkingen. A linear
sequence of stereophonic fixed media single screen video files depicting a kind
of stylized visit to an Internet site. Entirely through composed deterministic
realisations with no live instrumentalists. Each of the three sets will have a
duration of about 40 minutes each and will allow for about 20 minute
intermissions after each set. The three sets will contain presentations of sonic
materials interspersed with excerpts from the thesis using speech synthesis. As
each material plays comments will be written explaining how each line
contributes to the resultant music. To be performed during LjudOljud on April
6th at Fylkingen. Documented as an Internet site containing all music and text. 

In my thesis I aim to present my thoughts on how my work writing code and making
music might be connected in some hopefully interesting ways to tensions within
my field ("field" used here in a broader sense). My own origin story is likely
another source for clues as to why I am driven to do the things that I do, but
also, why I am broken in the particular way that I am. I'd also like to explore
the possibility of making my thesis valuable to others in terms of it's utility
by including my code. Other ways I'd like to touch upon how value gets created
in a potential listener and or reader is narrative and place. I'll investigate
where my own ideas about organising sound come from by telling stories and
attempting to trace them back to their sources, engaging with them as lore,
particular to myself and, contrastingly, to the wider field of new music. I aim
to maintain course towards a narrow field of research by limiting the scope of
my inquiry to mostly my own music and thoughts, tacking on to a lesser degree my
best guesses as to the origins of both. The task at hand is mainly organising
sound. My ambition is to present a number of materials, both in thought and in
music. In doing so I hope to "tune" the listener's perception of the musical
works held within the project through the means of text in order to allow for
the possibility of greater immersion. While I don't believe in actual magic I
find this passage from Jarod Anderson's The CryptoNaturalist useful for purposes
of illustration:

"Pinecones are beautiful, geometric wonders that are only devalued by their
abundance. Fractal sculptures. Evergreen snowflakes. Blossoms in wood.
(Familiarity can rust magic. A little mental effort returns the shine.)" 

I would like to return the shine, as it were, to the task of organising sound in
general and to working with algorithimic composition in particular. 
Stretch goals would be to influence people to join me in rewiring the term
Computer Music to hold a new meaning. One tailored specifically to fit our time.
As computers are no longer held in artificial scarcity but rather available in
abundance new ways of thinking and acting in the world are possible.

If possible one idea would be to fill the first set with only "solo" pieces
(pieces which use one set of samples).

After the intermission a duo piece, then a trio piece and so on.

The third set would be an ensemble piece. It might could be that holding out for
a tutti divisi 100 hundred stem orchestra piece equivalent would be pushing it.
That would for sure be the top of the pyramid though.
