I've come to understand that my fascination for room tones is connected to my
confusion about my class identity. Mimer first. I didn't realize it at the time.
And then later, The Machine Hall in St√§llberg. It was right under my nose then
but it took me quite a while to piece the puzzle together. It's impossible for
the narrative component of which space I use to travel to the distance to the
listener on it's own. For me it's different. I know the name of the convolution
file. I can imagine the workers there. Through a wrinkle in time. Working,
ceaselessly, dutifully. And now that the lightning has been caught in the bottle
I can imagine that work filling that room with sound. From the lowest rumbles
through the spectrum all the way up the ladder to the harshest height of the
audible spectrum. At the end of it we subtract time and we've captured if not
the room itself then it's essence, or if you care to indulge me, it's soul. My
fascination has been focusing in on trying to pin down the work that happened
there. It can't be saved for later and understood given enough time. My origin
story will always elude me. If these walls could talk we say. My thoughts
connect things up and make patterns. Compare another cavernous room tone; The
church. A place of worship. A place to wonder in awe of god's greatness. The
organ was the first big organised sound. That room is part of how we've heard
that instrument. The resonance. Place and narrative intersect in the tone of the
room. As the room resonates we are brought into resonance with ideas. I never
believed in god. I never believed that narrative. I know work was real. The
workers were real. Their struggle was real. I believe in that narrative.
