### Mapping the valleys of the uncanny

An investigation into process and method within the field of algorithmic
composition. 

The role of instrumentation and or timbre as they unwittingly
conspire to designate access, power, work and ultimately class.

Diagram of the valley:

General MIDI Orchestra sounds <----+----> Paul Saunderson's Awakening
                                   |
                                   |
                                   V
                           The Uncanny Valley

The role of instrumentation is on the one hand entirely arbitrary to me as I am
certain that the universe is fundamentally indifferent to my existence, and so,
subsequently to which sounds I sequence in what way. None the less
instrumentation is a source of immense fascination for me. Any sound could be
sequenced. Which sounds would I like to sequence? What are my preferences? I know
that I have at times let availability and prevalence to some extent dictate my
choices. I should like to address that with a number of works that make good on
promises of infinite abundance. After all anything is possible in Electronic
Music. Any sound at any time. Timbre of course fascinates composers. 

In my life I have come to regard certain sounds as desirable but illusive. The
price I've had to pay has sometimes been higher than I would have liked in order
to hear them for even the briefest of moments. I've had to work quickly and compromise.
I've felt that the prescribed modus operandi has been error prone and difficult
to utilize towards my ends of organising sound in the ways that I prefer.

Within so called "New Music" there exists a great divide between the electronic
and the acoustic. Certain sounds are not easily reached for someone like me for
one reason or another.

As my work of organizing sound has led me further and further down the path of
algorithmic composition I have grown more and more interested in the role of
contexts and connotations that certain sounds bring about in an audience. I
never really had any deeper context for LinnDrum claps or Gabber kicks of my own
apart from the obvious fact that they are strictly out of bounds for anyone
looking to make serious music. While that forbidden quality still holds some
titillation I am now much more interested in my own coming into resonance. The
sounds I feel most strongly connected to coming up through New Music where
always out of reach. 

So in very practical terms: I've changed up my way of working. I've gone from
making recordings of musicians playing my scores to now creating sample packs.
Things like the organ have been great because I've been able to do that on my
own. Last year I did a piece for ensemble and through that I met some great
musicians who have been very helpful. Frida Mossop is a great violinist who has
great tone and understands what I want. Also Pau Villa is a percussionist that
I've worked with to create a lot of material. There are some other people also
that I've worked with to create some great packs that I am now sequencing. Given
that I am sequencing files in a computer instead of writing scores for humans to
either misunderstand or not care about, new things are possible. I am happy and
the work is progressing. Up to now I've made etudes for single instruments. The
focus going forward is to work up from duo to trio and so on up to larger
ensembles.

Most of the time I feel like I'm a high functioning automaton at best and that
all of my veracious peaks of inspiration are just bright ideas channeled to me
through popular cultural imperialism. That for all of my talk of the need for
newness and weirdness in music I'm just regurgitating things I've heard. Things
I've been taught to think, do and to make into sound. So I struggle. With
tremendous doubt. I'm trying to find something new to say even though I know
everything has been said a thousand times. I guess I'd be lucky if I can end up
with a subtle difference in emphasis or tone. The information conveyed it self;
Now that would be something.  But that is so much further down the rabbit hole.

So certain things are different when sequencing sounds in a computer. Sounds can
be played faster. That's interesting because we have that faster playing in
music played by humans also. It's exciting because a lot of the time it gets
held up as virtuostic. We use phrases like gifted or talented musicians.  A
computer can play _exactly_ the same amplitude and timbre multiple times in a
row. Humans can't, well actually the constraint is higher up than that. Simple
physics, Newtoninan forces won't allow it. We've never held that kind of
virtuosity up as equilibristic instrumentalist practise. I don't think we'd
react quite the same way if a human got even remotely close. "You sound like a
machine" they'd say. It would be derogatory. They might not even know what
machine they'de be referring to. It would be the sampler and more specifically
an early days sampler with a single layer of samples. No round-robin switching
out of the samples to mimic what happens "naturally" when a key is struck on a
Celesta. An infinite amount of the subtlest variation explodes out of that
action each time.

Homework:   
• Find Masters (plural) and a Doctor thesis to write about.  
• Choose a piece that is finished and either talk about it or write a text about
the work or write from a new angle if a text alreday exists.


